# ChatGPT on Graphics

### Name0: Great Perfect Team
### Name1: Anthony Sun
### Name2: Joseph Wu
### Name3: Afia Bidica

---

## Background
Your goal is to get ChatGPT to create a program that meets all the requirements of our graphics engine up to the latest assignment. This includes:
* Drawing lines
* Drawing circles, and Bezier and Hermite curves.
* Maintining an edge list of points.
* Being able to perform & potentially combine transformations, rotations and dilations.
* Being able to save and display the images.
* Being able to correctly read in files using the graphics scripting language we've developed.

Some Notes:
* Please stick to C, Python or Java as the language of choice.
* Don't let ChatGPT use an existing graphics engine, it's got to work as hard as you have!
* If the program has multiple files, feel free to get ChatGPT to create a makefile for you.
* If you get it to create a useable grpahics engine, see if it can generate an image that shows off its capabilities.



## Task 0: Setup
Only one member of your group needs to have an account to use ChatGPT, if someone has one already, go ahead and use that. If not, pick one person to sign up, the simplest method to sign up would be to authenticate with google and use your stuy.edu email address. Authentication will require recieving a text message, so pick someone that has easy access to their phone.

You can find ChatGPT here: <https://chat.openai.com/chat>

## Task 1: The First Program
### Your Prompt
Provide below the first description you gave ChatGPT:

Create a graphics engine that can draw a line from point (x1,y1) to point (x2,y2). The program should then display the image. You must create your own drawline function using the Bresenhams Line Algorithm

### The Code
Crate a folder in this repository called __0-program__ containing all the relevant code initially created by ChatGPT.

### Your Analysis
Answer the Following Questions after seeing the initial program.

#### Question 0
Overall, how well did ChatGPT do?

It made most of the code, but because of the character limit, it couldn't output whole files and often repeated itself.

#### Question 1
What did ChatGPT get right?

It got right almost everything, but again because of the char limit, it hallucinated previous code.

#### Question 2
What did ChatGPT get wrong?

It didn't create proper ways to save files, and the logic wasn't intact. It also couldn't generate the main file.

#### Question 3:
How much of the code generated by ChatGPT do you understand?

Almost everything was the same or served the same function as our code.

#### Question 4:
How does ChatGPT's approach differe from yours?

It was almost tit-for-tat for our approach.


## Task 2: Refinement
if possible, run the code made by ChatGPT. Based on your answers the questions above, and your observations about how the program runs, ask ChatGPT to improve the code. ChatGPT will generally understand that you are asking to make changes to your inital prompt, so you don't need to restate the enire problem, instead, ask for specific changes or improvements.

Provide each prompt you gave ChatGPT bellow. Give each prompt a header like this :`#### Prompt X` where X is a counter starting at 1.

#### Prompt 1
I'm going to ask you to code a graphics engine from scratch using python 3
#### Prompt 2
I will provide further guidance on creating the graphics engine
#### Prompt 3
In this engine, you will be able to output PPM files, or a direct representation of each pixel in rgb in a file. Are you familiar with this uncompressed method of representing an image?
#### Prompt 4
Please reply with short confirmations of understanding or clarifying questions, I am just giving basic information for the construction of this graphics engine.
#### Prompt 5
are you familiar with Bresenham’s line algorithm?
#### Prompt 6
So far, the graphics engine will:
1. Have a way to output a 3D array of pixel values corresponding to a cartesian grid to PPM file format
2. Incorporate Bresenham's line algorithm through a draw_line(p1,p2) function that will write a line to the aforementioned 3D array, with p1 and p2 being parameters that take the form of tuples (x,y,z)
#### Prompt 7
Do not output code right now, but keep this in mind when generating the final code
#### Prompt 8
The code will make use of matrices, so be sure to have functions that can multiply matrices, create a new matrix, and set a given square matrix to be an identity matrix. Matrices will be unconventional, as they will be column by row (i.e. appending to the matrix 2D array will give it another column)
#### Prompt 9
the engine will also be able to draw a circle coplanar to the x-y plane, if given a point in space and a radius. It will use cos(theta) and sin(theta) to build the x and y offsets respectively, where theta is an iterative counter that goes from 0 to 360 degrees. Since most sin and cos math functions in python are using radians, of course it will convert degrees to radians before proceeding.
#### Prompt 10
More on the applications of the matrix: the program will be able to maintain an "edge matrix" as well, or a 2d list of points that define lines that will be drawn. Every two points are paired, so points at index 0 and 1 would form a line, 2 and 3 would form a line, etc. Additionally, despite there only being 3 coordinate values, please include a 1 at the end of each column to make interacting with 4x4 transformation matrices much easier. Are you familiar with this?

#### Prompt 11
You will also maintain functions that will generate matrices that transform the edge matrix. This includes: scale, translate, rotate about the x axis, rotate about the y axis, and rotate about the z axis.

#### Prompt 12
You will also be able to generate hermite and bezier curves (which will have their corresponding matrix-generating functions for the transformation constants).

#### Prompt 13
You will also be able to parse and interpret a scripting language that allows a user to designate lines, circles, bezier and hermite curves, as well as transformations described above. The format would look like this (newlines separate commands and arguments)

line
10 20 10 30 50 10
scale
3 3 3

etc.

This is the specification for each command.
circle: add a circle to the edge matrix - 
	         takes 4 arguments (cx, cy, cz, r)
	 hermite: add a hermite curve to the edge matrix -
	          takes 8 arguments (x0, y0, x1, y1, rx0, ry0, rx1, ry1)
	 bezier: add a bezier curve to the edge matrix -
	         takes 8 arguments (x0, y0, x1, y1, x2, y2, x3, y3)


         line: add a line to the edge matrix -
               takes 6 arguemnts (x0, y0, z0, x1, y1, z1)
         ident: set the transform matrix to the identity matrix -
         scale: create a scale matrix,
                then multiply the transform matrix by the scale matrix -
                takes 3 arguments (sx, sy, sz)
         move: create a translation matrix,
               then multiply the transform matrix by the translation matrix -
               takes 3 arguments (tx, ty, tz)
         rotate: create a rotation matrix,
                 then multiply the transform matrix by the rotation matrix -
                 takes 2 arguments (axis, theta) axis should be x y or z
         apply: apply the current transformation matrix to the edge matrix
         display: clear the screen, then
                  draw the lines of the edge matrix to the screen
                  display the screen
         save: clear the screen, then
               draw the lines of the edge matrix to the screen
               save the screen to a file -
               takes 1 argument (file name)
         quit: end parsing

For further clarification, a sample script file could look like this
circle
250 250 0 200
circle
175 325 0 50
circle
325 325 0 50
circle
175 325 0 10
circle
325 325 0 10
hermite
150 150 350 150 -100 -100 100 150
bezier
200 250 150 50 300 250 300 250
bezier
46 494 7 488 47 455 10 450
hermite
77 492 73 455 3 32 -6 25
bezier
82 479 80 490 69 469 68 481
bezier
91 486 91 444 112 448 111 487
bezier
161 489 114 455 132 469 139 490
bezier
111 451 114 455 132 469 139 490
hermite
185 496 179 453 -105 -23 100 23
hermite
220 493 204 453 -112 -20 -125 -29
display
save
face.png


#### Prompt 14
I will start asking you to output code now. I understand that generating large codebases like this will not be possible in one response due to the character limit, so please specify the file with each output and as much code as possible that wouldnt cut a function or line off that would be within the character limit for each response. I will ask you to continue providing code until you tell me you are done.

#### Prompt 15
continue

#### Prompt 16
save doesn't look complete, please finish that part and continue generating

#### Prompt 17
I meant for you to finish this block:
elif cmds[0] == "save":
        if len(cmds) < 2:
            print("Not enough parameters for save

#### Prompt 18
please regenerate parser.py without error messages. assume given script is syntaxically correct

#### Prompt 19
the command and the arguments are on different lines. does parser take this into account?

#### Prompt 20
As I said earlier, commands and parameters are separated by a newline. please modify parser.py (without error messages) to take this into account

#### Prompt 21
perfect, continue with next files

#### Prompt 22
z_rotation doesn't look finished. please finish that block and continue to generate matrix.py if the file is not complete

#### Prompt 23
z_rotation doesn't look finished. please finish that block and continue to generate matrix.py if the file is not complete. do not include docstrings

##### Other prompts lost due to network errors, but it was just more clarifications until it looked somewhat cohesive

## Task 3: The Final Program
Include the final program created by ChatGPT in this repository in a folder called __1-program__.



